hi you guys what's
up welcome back to my channel
smallidic's channel i'm april whitney
you guys
know me this is a space where we talk
about everything
petite women's health fitness nutrition
mindset all the good stuff so
i'm really excited to be live with you
guys today we're doing a q a
so if you join us live if you're able to
hop on feel free to just ask me any
questions you have if you've
had questions based on any of the videos
that i posted the last couple months
feel free to ask um we cover all the
topics as you guys know and then i also
took questions ahead of time and i'll
start with those
um so yeah feel free to say hi if you're
here on the chat
love to hang out with you guys the next
like 20 30 minutes
and just chat about all the stuff into
all the things interesting in the
fitness and nutrition realm
um for short girls so shall we get
started
i don't know why i'm so thirsty today
i'm also still in my pajamas arguably so
happy monday you guys again
live q a if you have any questions drop
them in the chat otherwise i'm going to
jump in with
a bunch of questions i got on instagram
from you guys okay so
we're just gonna like jump in the
nitty-gritty stuff um
someone asked how often should we
dedicate this from amber
janaenae how often should we dedicate
specific parts of our body to working
out per week for example leg day
so generally you want to work on each
muscle group
two to three times per week for optimal
results a lot of people train legs more
often so
three times per week because you just
there's just more muscles
in your legs and your upper body so you
have to hit it a little bit more often a
little bit higher
uh volume and frequency and then you can
do arms or upper body twice a day
or of course you can also do this all
wrapped into total body workouts which
is what i
recommend for petite women because you
get that metabolic effect of
doing a total body workout over the
split training
um this is a great question though
um okay and i'm hoping the next
30 minutes is going to be super
value-packed i'm just going to like run
through a lot of
a lot of information so again if you do
want to jump in if you have questions
about anything i bring up please feel
free to make
use of me since i'm here live and can
basically give you
live um live feedback in time
okay in real time that's a word uh
someone asked about pff
which stands for protein um fats and
fibrous carbs that's what we teach in
petite power which is our 12-week
nutrition
and fitness transformation program for
petite women um
this is how you build out a plate as a
petite to help speed up your metabolism
so
um mrsd asked are pff portions on a
plate
of food supposed to be equal really good
question they're not supposed to so in
general you want to have
you want to build your plate around
protein make sure that your
serving of protein is about 20 to 30
grams
that could be three to four ounces of
your protein of choice
and your fats and your carbs are going
to depend on
how active you are for the day um what
your goals are
in general you can have as a for a woman
um for a petite woman you could have
about
a thumb or two thumbs of fat so that
could be like avocado olive oil whatever
um and for your carbs generally a cupped
hand of carbs will do the trick again it
could be more
depending on how active you are that day
and what your goals are
that's a ballpark in general the protein
is the most important one so you always
want to prioritize that
um thoughts on bmi for petite women
often puts us in the overweight or obese
category yeah bmi
has been on the outs for a long time
it's just not that accurate anymore
especially
for athletes and for people like us that
weight train
it's not going to take into account the
fact that your
muscle weighs more than fat and so you
could have a higher bmi but be in
incredible shape so
that's absolutely not the best thing to
go off of bmi
of course if your body fat percentage is
really high and you're
you have less lean mass in the form of
muscle then
you can absolutely focus on bmi and look
to improve that
number with your doctor if that's a goal
for you um
rb thank you so much thanks for showing
up here today
okay what do you do on your
rest days and how many active days a
week is healthy this is from maria
andrea what do i do on my rest day so
yesterday i took a rest day i take
right now i'm taking one rest day per
week and
it's kind of two actually but on my rest
days i do
right now this just right now in my life
i'm taking active recovery days so i
foam roll which helps break up the
um some of the soreness i'll have from
just like lifting heavy throughout the
week
um i'll foam roll i'll do any rehab
exercises i need to
i have a um old rotator cuff injury i'm
still like nursing back so i'll do some
like
very easy exercises for that um
i do a dynamic warm-up so these are like
active stretches
and i do like cardio so if it's a step
count goal for example maybe i
on my active rest day i want to make
sure i get 10 000 steps in i go on to
walks you know or i do some cycling
downstairs
um or yeah i try not to have the
intensity be high
but i still want my rest days to be
active i just
don't want to sit at home all day at my
rest days i don't feel good the next day
when i do that
so i still stay pretty active and i try
to do things i love
um recently i've been loving cycling
like i've just been
loving it so much so i'll go and do a
cycling class like super low intensity
low impact one
in general how many active rest days
that you take
depends on you your goals and also what
you're currently doing so
the reason why there's never one word
answers to all of these questions is
because it's largely dependent on
where you are in your fitness journey
and that's why you will find a million
answers on the internet because there's
a million answers depending on
where you're at so for me i've been
exercising my whole life
i used to be an internationally ranked
athlete and was olympic hopeful at one
point so i have a lot of experience
working out a lot
um which is why i only take one to two
rest days
someone who's just getting started might
take five rest days and work
out twice a week so you guys can see how
variable can be based on your goal
it really there is no right thing what
you want to do if you're a beginner is
just start with that you know one to
three
to five depends on you know days per
week
and gradually increase it to the point
that feels good for you that gets you
results
but it's also very sustainable and
maintainable for you so that
you can keep it in the long run you
don't want to do anything that you can't
actually
maintain for like the rest of your life
basically
um hi karen karen you asked can you lose
pounds of muscle if you haven't worked
out in two weeks
no luckily it's not that easy to
lose it wouldn't worry about it if you
can get back to lifting
soon even just body weight with uh
higher time under tension use tempo
you will maintain your muscle um it's
much easier
harder than you think it than you think
to lose muscle it'll take a while and
honestly don't you don't have anything
to worry about there
you're fine it would take a few months
okay oh i like this question
from it's the little things uh
cute which food item keeps you full for
the longest
so maybe not just one item but the
specific macronutrient
so there's three types of food groups
there's protein there's fats
and there's carbohydrates so
the one that has the most calories in it
is fats meaning it's just the densest
in terms of like how many calories are
in it so there's four
calories per gram of um protein
and carb and then there's nine in fat so
fats are usually the most filling
thing to eat so these would be like your
nuts nut butters avocado also avocado
has a high fiber intake so that'll keep
you extra full which is great
of course they're also calorically dense
so you want to be mindful of that but if
you want to make sure you stay full for
four hours between meals
get enough protein get enough fibrous
carbs and then make sure you have
healthy fats in there
like i just said that's gonna keep you
super full
the thing that keeps you the least
amount of full is naked carbs so this is
just like
excuse me um snacking on like a banana
it's just
it's a healthy food item but when it's
alone it's gonna make you hungry really
fast because it's mostly sugars it gets
broken down really quickly in the body
and it leaves you hungry
really soon after um hi anika
anika asked how can i increase my
calories after i've been slightly under
eating for a few months
you want to do it really slowly so if
you're going to reverse diet or just try
to increase your metabolism
do it very slowly make sure you're
hitting a high enough protein goal
um i recommend point eight to one gram
protein
per pound of body weight so you can work
up to that and just slowly increase
don't increase by
500 calories suddenly right you want to
do it very gradually so your metabolism
can
can increase slowly catch up slowly and
that you don't start storing a lot of
the excesses fat right away
so just do it do it in a healthy way um
emily said
my gym is still closed if you could only
own three pieces of a
at-home gym equipment that are easy to
store what would they be love that
question emily
i would say also my gym is still closed
too i'm not going to the gym
i'm still doing rooftop workouts living
room workouts
you guys have seen on my instagram um i
would say a pair of dumbbells
is absolutely essential uh resistance
bands
really really great and maybe a trx
system because
body weight training you can do a lot of
challenging stuff with that
those would be my top three i think uh
melanie said tips on losing fat without
counting calories or macros
absolutely so again it's going to depend
where you're at some people are not
eating enough calories
they need to start increasing their
calories to lose weight and some people
are eating in a caloric surplus
if you're a petite woman and you're
eating over 2000 calories a day and your
goal is to lose fat you can start to
listen to uh your hunger cues and also
start to modify your intake you don't
want to diet or restrict too much but if
you're eating that high of a surplus and
you want to lose weight
you can start to eat um you know
prioritize the protein
and eat smaller portions if you are not
eating enough that can also be a reason
why you're not losing calorie
losing fat and you've hit a plateau you
might need to start increasing slowly so
it's really hard to give advice on
youtube and also this is like
people dm me all the time and they're
like how do i lose fat
um and it's like i don't know i don't
know you i don't know what your
metabolic history is i don't know how
many calories you're eating right now
um it would be so unprofessional like to
give you any advice without knowing
the you and like the context of you and
what your movement's like and
just a lot of things that we always run
our clients through to make sure the
recommendations we make are like sound
and actually will be effective for you
so um
melanie though the short answer would be
start to get in tune with your hunger
cues um
you do not have to track macros you can
go by the palm method you can
start to um improve the composition of
your diet so just making sure you're
getting enough
whole unprocessed foods and that should
be enough to
get you started um
sam hi sam asked is it okay to have a
few days where you just aren't hungry or
you don't eat your calories or macros
for the day i have trouble forcing
myself to eat when i'm not hungry
so the thing is um when you are trying
to increase your metabolism
you're not going to be hungry you're
going to have to teach your body to
get hungry so this is like a lot of
people who eat like
you know women who get stuck in those
like chronic eating only
500 calories a day they're training
their body not to be hungry they're
slowing their metabolism down over time
so
you have to eat a little bit more when
you aren't hungry for example like if
you want to eat breakfast again you'll
have to eat
before you have that appetite to start
getting those hunger hormones back
start getting everything working back up
again
um so i would say if it's if you're
if you're not able to eat your macros
every day they're probably too high it
should be something a little more
realistic if you're not
me reading reaching the goal um but it's
okay to eat when you're not hungry
if you are coming out of restriction for
a long time and your body has forgotten
like what normal hunger cues are you're
gonna have to retrain it and relearn it
and get those
hunger hormones you're left in a ghrelin
like back in gear
so it's okay in that case you you know
eat more when you're
not feeling it uh again really depends
on the individual and like where you're
at
um if you guys are learning anything
also i'd love if you'd give this video a
thumbs up
um and support this channel it means so
so so much to me
um okay cindy asked i've been doing a
four day split upper body and lower body
with up to 30 pound dumbbells at home
for the past
five weeks see these no offense any
these are the dm's i get like every day
and i don't blame you guys they're
good questions um
so you've been eating 1400 1700 calories
a day
128 pounds not seen much of a change so
even though you gave me a lot of
information i also still have so many
questions for you and if
you'll know that good professionals have
lots of questions
um because i just i literally i would
need to get up in your business and see
like
what what does your food journal look
like are you eating enough i'll ask you
questions and maybe you can
investigate into your your life um
what is your composition of your diet
look like so yes you're eating 14 to
1700 calories a day but what is it what
is the composition of that
nutrition is it mostly processed is it
whole foods is there enough protein in
every meal
um looking at the composition of your
diet is so important for changing your
body
composition overall you really the
calories like
they're important right i'm not going to
say they don't matter of course they do
matter but
the composition and the quality of your
nutrition
is just as important in getting through
a plateau
um so i would say get curious like trap
like check out what your movement is
like
what your step count is like um how
intense are your workouts
uh have you chronically been dieting
prior to now
um there's just so many things that
could be at play that's why we
really have to you really have to
take a close look at all the factors
like what's your sleep like like there's
so many things so i hope you understand
that
to give you a good answer i would need a
lot more information
um how do you accurately count calories
of cook your own meals
you can just download myfitnesspal or
the my macros plus app
and you can just every single food has
a certain number of calories in it it's
like a potato if you're like cooking
your own meals you just enter
um you weigh it out on a scale so you
get a food scale you wait out in grams
and it'll just tally it up for you
um hi chelsea chelsea asked to optimize
fat burn should i limit grains like
bread and pasta and tortillas
um no not necessarily uh again chelsea
if it fits your into your like
uh meal goals for your macros
you're not going to slow fat burn by
having traditional carby carb foods like
that
you need those in fact for fat burning
so you don't need to swear off any food
groups
there's a place for every food in every
diet so long as you don't have a food
intolerance allergy or
yeah some you know that's where you
that's the only reason to limit a food
is an intolerance
um so yeah no you don't have to swear
off all the good carbs i certainly
do not do that um
crystal asks how do you know you are
gaining muscle and not fat how do you
measure that kind of progress
great question crystal
so measuring progress the scale is
not necessarily going to tell you if
you're losing fat or muscle right
because
it's not looking at your body
composition it's just looking at your
overall weight and so you could be
gaining muscle and gaining pounds on the
scale
and still not you know not be sure if
you're also losing fat at the same time
so what i recommend crystal
take measurements with a measuring tape
that is going to be a really
good indicator of especially in your
natural waistline that's the thinnest
point of the waist
measure that measure hips measure upper
thigh
those are the things that you'll want to
take a look at to help engaging
your body recomposition progress
yeah no problem sam
let's see you guys have great questions
today
um
kiana said what age do you think it's
appropriate to start working out
that's a good question um it depends on
what workouts you're doing
uh of course at any age it's great to be
active so
um if you are talking about like heavy
heavy weight lifting obviously you need
to be supervised if you're really young
um but you know some people also
weightlift just
make sure you're doing it in a safe
environment and
with a good coach um i've been following
solidus workouts and natasha ocean
functional workouts awesome is there
anything i should be wary of being only
16 no i think those are great workouts
very functional
um that's awesome good for you kiana
it's awesome
uh let's see eddie asked what are your
favorite vegetarian
vegan protein powders i'm not vegan or
vegetarian however i
eat a lot of plant-based meals because
it's great um high fiber
i love topeka right now you guys uh it's
an australian brand
tropica vanilla protein they also have a
salted caramel that's like
so delicious and they have a chocolate
one
i've been that's what i've been eating
for my protein powders and i'm i'm
i think i'm in it for like the long haul
with them they make a really good
protein powder
um oh you just ordered it yeah that's
what i recommend
um how do you know this is from jovita
how do you know whether your hunger is
emotional or real
oh that's a very good question so
if we're gonna talk about um
like just this is really gonna come down
to like
hard work on your part um and
it's really great that you're asking
these questions i think as step one is
just having this awareness or this
curiosity of like
what's going on with my body why am i
behaving this way um
i would keep a food journal and if
you're finding that
you are eating out of boredom or if
you're eating right after
uh some kind of emotional trigger or
interaction with a specific person or
you notice your stress is correlated
with eating that could be emotional
um you really just gonna have to get
very in tune with yourself
journaling is a really good tool for
this so you just journal before every
meal talk about how you're feeling what
you know look at the context of your day
like what's
what is causing you stress that day um
or emotional
stress and start to keep a food log of
when you eat in you know in relation to
how you're feeling and you might start
to
notice some patterns um
where it's really a exercise in
awareness which lifestyle changes are
all about awareness at the end of the
day it's we're all making these
tough changes in our life based off of
um
our own behaviors and accepting 100
responsibility for like oh man i
i didn't even know i was doing that but
i am and i i want to change it i want to
feel better i want to have more energy
or i want to have a better relationship
with food it all starts with that
awareness so
thanks for that question that's a really
great question
um melanie asked what mindset shift
really made you see results
manifestation um i mean i've had so many
mindset shifts
over the course of my life uh i would
say most recently in the last
you guys know i tracked my fitness i
shared my fitness journey and lost 10
pounds over the last uh
like six months or so um i think i just
had this
uh i love fitness you guys know that i
just had this uber curiosity to
i just knew like i was working a lot and
i wasn't i was doing the bare minimum
and i got to a point where i was like i
really want to see
like just what i can do because i know
i'm just
doing what i do to take care of myself
but i'm not like pushing the boundaries
um and so i was just kind of motivated
to um
just to be like what could be possible
you know what
what could have like i'm having so much
fun and i really focused on the process
um the day in the day out process i
didn't focus on the results i had no
goal to lose 10 pounds i was
didn't even know i had 10 mountains to
lose um i felt good before i went into
it it was really just like
let's like have some fun and um use my
body and get stronger and
kind of came from that like curiosity
anastasia asked
do you believe in bulking and cutting as
far as bodyweight calm goes
so bulking cutting is not body recomp so
when you have a
when you undergo a body recomposition
you're not
dieting and bulking eating in a surplus
and
dieting you're not doing that that's
it's their opposite so
i teach and i advocate for body recomp
it's when you eat at your maintenance
calories if you're in a good place with
your maintenance calories as a petite
um and you work on weight training
and some other lifestyle changes eating
pff and it's slower it takes three to
six months but you slowly
change the composition the appearance of
your body the scale may or may not
change during that time but you're
changing that fat to muscle ratio so
less spot lower body fat percentage
higher lean muscle tissue in your body
this is so much more sustainable than
bulking cutting
i cannot tell you guys how many times
i've watched women
first of all dieting you guys know how i
feel about dieting it has a
99 fail rate 100 of the time is that
like a
can i say that i don't know i know it's
99 right
they do not work in the long term um
also your metabolism will adapt to a
lower intake and you'll hit a plateau so
there's really no reason to diet unless
you're in a very caloric surplus
starting out like i said above 2000
calories a day
as a petite woman who doesn't exercise a
lot that would be like a very high
surplus then you could do a cut and do
it safely and maintain it but if you're
a regular person
you know uh you don't need to do cuts
and it's not going to help you
bulking is not great unless you're
competing
and you really need to put on muscle um
a lot of times
or you really if you have a really
strong goal to gain weight that you
should bulk but if you're just trying to
undergo a body recom so lose fat and
gain muscle you can do that without
dieting or bulking and just stay the
course
strength train work on the intensity
work on building muscle improving your
metabolism improve your nutrition and
you will get results in three to six
months if not sooner depends on the
individual and then you'll get to keep
them forever because it's very
sustainable
it's maintainable and you're not
restricting which is
really important um
[Music]
miss young said i've become vegan due to
ethical reasons any tips to not get
quote unquote fat i feel like my body
fat percentage increase even when trying
to increase vegan protein
yeah so unfortunately a lot of vegan
products on the market you guys probably
know
are heavily processed and not the
healthiest even though
veganism is touted to be very healthy
right um plant-based diets they are
healthy um if you're doing it
responsibly you're eating enough whole
foods you're getting enough
um protein the problem we run into is
people don't do that when they
instead they switched to like all the
processed vegan
products that are in the grocery stores
instead of like the whole single
ingredient food like your vegetables
fruits
um beans legumes and everything so
i would try to stick to as many
unprocessed vegan
foods as you can that would just be real
food and
um you know stick to you can still get
protein i made a whole other video on
vegan
and vegetarian protein sources so check
that out um
there's lots edamame there's so many um
i think it just seemed more to whole
foods
really go a long way um
we have probably gonna hang around for
like 10 more minutes
um if uh yeah so
we'll keep going i don't know i'm trying
to stay there
um can you do a follow-along warm-up
routine for weight training
yeah melanie check out my like ancient
videos
um if you go into like the files of my
youtube channel there is an
old old dynamic warm-up i still do that
same warm-up it's
in fantastic warm-up check it out it's
called dynamic warm-up
um thanks jovita and thank you caitlyn
uh let's see chelsea said knowing that i
can sustain better with a four workout
day per week rather than five should i
implement this keeping good habits and
steps up on the rest days
um yeah i mean absolutely you should do
what
is gonna feel realistic for you um keep
in mind
this could affect like i know chelsea
for you guys who don't know chelsea is
in petite power
so she just actually finished around she
had great great results
um i think doing what you can maintain
is really important
um just make sure yeah make sure on your
rest days you can stay at maybe a little
bit slightly higher step count
and you should be fine at the end of the
day this is about enjoying a process
like i said you know finding something
maintainable sustainable that feels good
because then you'll stick to it and
that's when you really start to see like
the magic
of a program working
um crystal as should overweight slash
obese obese
uh petite still follow the one gram of
per pound of body weight of protein
um no and this is something i'm glad you
asked
you should not if i i personally would
say anything over 135 pounds for a
petite woman you don't need 135 grams of
protein per day just a little bit of an
overload
to your kidneys not that you're gonna
like die or anything but um
no i would cap it 135 if you're
more than 135 and then fill out the rest
of your calories with your fats and your
carbs
um
siana asks do you take any other
supplements or powders
other than protein amino acids magnesium
so i'll tell you guys what i personally
take but i do need to
disclaimer this and say that um
you can figure out exactly what you need
to be taking as supplements
just from a simple blood test at your
doctor's
check for any deficiencies in vitamins
and minerals they will straight up tell
you
i will tell you that most women today
are deficient in vitamin d3
we don't get enough sun so i do take
vitamin d3 i also take
fish oil on days i don't eat salmon
that's important to get your
um your your fatty acids um
and what else i sometimes take collagen
i
i like it but i don't take it
consistently um that helps with my i
have a torn labrum and my hip from
fencing
just helps make things feel less you
know more lubricated and not like
like i'm an old lady um and
what else i take um i take a very high
quality probiotic for gut health there's
tons of studies that your gut is like
your second brain the better um
gut health you have the higher immunity
you have especially when covet hit i
went
and started really making sure my gut
health was
on key um so i would recommend probiotic
and high quality one and um i also take
just a multivitamin
so that's what i like to do but ask your
doctors get a blood test see what you're
deficient in
you don't need to be spending money on
supplements you're just gonna pm out
unless you
really need supplementation generally
oh thirsty you guys
[Music]
okay let's take a few more
thanks you guys for showing up this is
so fun i'm so glad that so many of us
can make it
um how often should you recalculate your
macros
you can recalculate them every two to
four weeks
depending upon your progress so if you
you don't want to change anything if
it's not broken right if you have
if you're seen progressing progress is
like two months just don't change
anything like just
going right um if you
have hit a platform you probably need to
recalculate if it's been
basically that's the only reason if you
start slowing progress either you
your nutrition needs to change or
another lifestyle thing needs to change
whether that's your step count your
intensity of your workouts your sleep
schedule there's other things
your food journal um you have to look at
the whole picture as a puzzle
and that's honestly why working with a
coach is really useful because they can
help you look at more than just your
caloric intake and
figure out like what should we shift
because your caloric intake should be
pretty much the last thing to change
there's so many other things that you
can fine-tune before you have to result
resort to that um let's see
thanks crystal if you
if i don't this is from l if i don't
care for abs and just want to build
muscles
can i not decrease my carb intake and
simply increase protein intake
um i'm just trying to think of what
you're trying to ask if i don't care for
abs and i
so you just want to build muscle you
want bulk um
not decrease my carbs and intake yeah
you you'll want carbs
for sure i would increase carbs for sure
and
i would increase buff just do them both
um
sydney asks what pro probiotics you take
i take now foods
probiotic um i've been on it for like
six months and i can say it is
great you can check them out they have
good quality stuff
um i'm not affiliated with them
uh melanie this would be the last one is
it bad to use a laxative when your
doctor
doctor recommends it because i normally
don't have good digestion i will leave
that one to your doctor
i would not recommend taking a laxative
unless your doctor has specifically
prescribed it for whatever health
reasons that you might have um
and actually this would be the last one
from caitlyn is 1400 calories generally
too low for a petite like five three
um that's on the lower end it's not the
lowest
trust me you're doing good caitlin some
petite women
and i've been there myself so it's i'm
not judging this has been my life
journey to
or you know below a thousand and that's
not good 1400 still
you know you might not be happy there
you might want to eat more food in a day
um so it kind of depends on what your
goals are but
it could be better but it could be a lot
worse um all right you guys thank you so
much for coming to live q a that was
really fun
um cheers to the short girl gang give
this a like
if you learned something new and you
just enjoyed hanging out with me and
i'll upload this on my channel if you
want to review and uh
yeah i hope you guys have a great rest
of your day happy monday
and i'll see you guys next time bye bye